Gwenevere Abriel: Hi.
Gwenevere Abriel: How are you
Cynthia We: Good, how are you
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, I had a little bit of a computer thing. So I'm on my laptop.
Cynthia We: Oh, what happened.
Gwenevere Abriel: To somebody and my computer turned off.
Cynthia We: Oh,
Gwenevere Abriel: I know, and it's a big fancy one too. It's like, I got this computer. So I would never have issues right I make my living at it.
Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm like,
Cynthia We: Wow.
Cynthia We: It was like weird
Gwenevere Abriel: It was like poltergeists D.
Cynthia We: Wow. So I hope you have a way to get it fixed like like
Cynthia We: Did you have the board.
Cynthia We: Well,
Gwenevere Abriel: It's on.
Gwenevere Abriel: It came back on. Um, I haven't voted it back up. I mean, I'm just gonna stay here on the laptop until
Gwenevere Abriel: I can like deal
Cynthia We: Oh, that just happened today.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or an hour ago.
Cynthia We: Oh my goodness. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: But it's it's it's backup and I'm just going to assume that
Gwenevere Abriel: Maybe it was a power surge.
Cynthia We: Oh, yeah.
Cynthia We: And yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: And maybe that's all and
Cynthia We: Hopefully you have it plugged into a surge protector.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, let's let's hope, but it doesn't visually look like that.
Cynthia We: Oh, okay. So, Gwen. That's the first thing that you must do is go purchase a surge protector. If you do not have it plugged into one.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, well,
Cynthia We: Mysteriously like my cousin got, um, she got hurt the front the tree out in front of her house got struck by lightning.
Cynthia We: Or something like that. And it created a power surge in her house and it fried everything that was not connected to a surge protector.
Cynthia We: Just freak like all of her all of her VCR her TV all electronic equipment got fried her computer was plugged into a surge protector, it was safe yes meal. Okay.
Cynthia We: Well, not, not sure, very important.
Gwenevere Abriel: So maybe that's the message I needed and
Cynthia We: That said, mine is not
Cynthia We: Isn't plugged into the wall like an idiot.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, so yeah, something to my to do list.
Cynthia We: So scout went off to work.
Cynthia We: He's meeting the truck and loading today. And he's been at the office all week. I'm putting stuff together. He is
You know, just
Cynthia We: He just needs to go to work. He's just a shadow work. And then, and then, you know, things can calm down around here he freaked out on Teague. And last night.
Cynthia We: I came home from working out and Teagan
Cynthia We: He anti gun. We're talking, but it seems that maybe Scott had gotten big and angry and trick taking out taking it was like cuddled down was crying.
Cynthia We: And I'm
Cynthia We: Scott was apologizing, but I know it was about because I totally I had asked him to do his homework and he had promised that he would do it and
Cynthia We: And he just ignores is. I mean, this is this job is a 13 year olds. It is his job to ignore us and not do what we ask, but
Cynthia We: He has to understand that it makes us really mad.
Cynthia We: Why, why does he have to understand, um, because he acts so surprised. Every time it happens. I'm like, but you are ignoring us and playing on the computer and not doing your dishes and not doing your homework. Like, why don't you be bad.
Cynthia We: Makes perfect sense to me. Okay, let's take this as a let's deconstruct that yes, work with that.
Or
Maybe not.
Maybe
Cynthia We: What he needs to learn is there'll be a consequence. And it's my anger. Oh, yeah.
That's what you learned
Cynthia We: Now you're hoping oh I consequences and anger.
Cynthia We: What my consequences were out you know they were outrageous.
Cynthia We: Outrageous. Yeah, they did. They made no sense. No.
Gwenevere Abriel: They didn't. They didn't match the crime at all.
Cynthia We: No. So I think that that is the important thing that they have to match the crime.
Cynthia We: We have, we have I, this was Scott dealing with it though. Not me. I, I
Cynthia We: Walk. I went and I exercise last night and I got enough sleep, I was very into taking care of myself because this is going to all fall on me in just a day or two.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so we can do go a lot of different places. I will tell you it's been on my mind. I've been if I can I share something I've been thinking about with Scott. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: The elephant, then sometimes the elephant is your shame that we don't address directly, but sometimes it's his anger.
Cynthia We: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's the elephant in the room. We're not talking about it shows up in in in individual therapy. It shows them in couples, it shows up in family, which we haven't done, but, um, you know, when we talk about parenting. It's there, too.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's like, well, I'll let I'll let that anger work for tea. And over here, maybe tins response to his anger will finally get Scott's attention this anger has been something that's been playing with we're trying to go at it and various ways.
Gwenevere Abriel: Initially I thought there was domestic violence. I told you that I'm transparent and
Gwenevere Abriel: What do you want to do with it because
Gwenevere Abriel: I've you are. You want to spend the rest of your life with it. Is this so
Gwenevere Abriel: Whoa, unacceptable that you want to say this needs undivided attention and and Scott, it must stop.
Gwenevere Abriel: This is, this is not okay not okay. I mean, okay. And you, this is what we're modeling for the kids. It's got to stop. We need some so but I don't know that might be me. Because remember, right. I know, go ahead.
Cynthia We: I do, I do feel like I'm that explosive anger that like crazy anger.
Cynthia We: Mm hmm. That scares me is not okay. And it's not okay to scare the kids, either. I don't think, um, I wasn't here when it happened, but
Cynthia We: You know, it should just happened like three weeks ago and I initially I thought, well, it's so infrequent that it's it's okay like he's working on it.
Cynthia We: But I got him a list of therapists, I tried you know because I thought maybe grief was we talked in here. I think about him getting therapy or I don't know who I talked to a lot it but I'm
Not
Gwenevere Abriel: Hmm, you're not doing it.
Cynthia We: He's not any doesn't take it seriously he agreed that he would. And then he just blows it off. Every time I've given him names I've given him names of people in network and out of network.
Cynthia We: People who deal with grief.
Cynthia We: He's he doesn't think it's hidden think he's the problem I'm the problem Antiguans the problem.
Cynthia We: And soon, I'm sure, Lola will be the problem.
Cynthia We: I'm saying that facetiously. Yeah, I understand.
Gwenevere Abriel: So we'll work with what we can. So I heard a yes it's got your attention and it's a
Cynthia We: Concern
Gwenevere Abriel: Tried to invite it to be addressed.
Gwenevere Abriel: But there's also you drawing the line with your own anger. So just notice how in your language that it's still the parenting technique of first choice he needs to understand we're going to get angry. No, he doesn't. Whoa.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. What else could he learn from because we're shaping these little minds to say, look for postponing immediate pleasure for long term.
Gwenevere Abriel: Gain. You know what I mean, we gotta do our homework. I know it's inconvenient.
Gwenevere Abriel: When we're right this is a little
Gwenevere Abriel: Space here and then they go out into
Gwenevere Abriel: Go out and not
Gwenevere Abriel: Their boss actually does. Wait, let's see. Well, wait, if I don't do my work, I got to understand my boss will yell at me.
Gwenevere Abriel: No, no, that won't work. The whole course will probably have that environment. If this family stays the way it is. That'll be really comfortable for familiar for him to get mad when understand it now.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now consequence right lose my job.
Gwenevere Abriel: If I don't perform I lose my job. I don't get a promotion. I get written up
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't get to join this particular group of people. I don't get the opportunities that someone that performs better
Gwenevere Abriel: But he doesn't need to understand this boss is getting get mad at him.
Cynthia We: Right, that's not a good thing. I mean,
Cynthia We: Help him at all.
No.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're waiting
Gwenevere Abriel: For that to be enough, the threat of you being angry and a lot of people do that. They use the lecture. They do the anger as a threat like that should be enough, you should care to prevent me from being angry prevent me from being angry that should motivate you.
Cynthia We: Know,
Cynthia We: He really cares about the consequences and the consequences. Just have to happen, right.
Gwenevere Abriel: They have to have one yeah we go here, often
Gwenevere Abriel: Yo what's up too much, but it is hard for you.
Gwenevere Abriel: To follow them.
Cynthia We: And it's so hard for Scott. Scott thinks he's being mean the same thing with me. I'm feel like we're being mean if we take things away because he cares so much about them.
Cynthia We: Well that makes them perfect
Cynthia We: To take away his phone for a little bit, or his headphones or
Gwenevere Abriel: But it makes sense to you. Just notice your logic. Right. But it makes sense.
To yell.
Cynthia We: Yelling is like the much to me. It's the milder form.
Cynthia We: It's not helpful.
Gwenevere Abriel: It doesn't work in a lot of ways, but I will tell you, most people do it.
Cynthia We: Well, most yeah
Gwenevere Abriel: Most, most people know. So you're not alone.
Cynthia We: I like yeah i i don't like it. I don't like it because I don't think it's helpful.
Cynthia We: I think the real goal is to change behavior and teach for the future and
Cynthia We: That waiting until your boss gets mad or your
Cynthia We: Whoever gets mad, is that
Cynthia We: I don't know, it would have helped me maybe to not to have like realistic consequences and and
Gwenevere Abriel: You've written them down. We've literally
Cynthia We: Sentences right
Gwenevere Abriel: And then it's fun. And there's this sort of hierarchy.
Cynthia We: Um, so one question I have for you is do we, I read a little bit about natural consequences natural consequences, being that he messes up at school, he goes to a very small school they care a lot, do we just let the teacher deal
Gwenevere Abriel: What do you mean the incomplete sense it's finished. Each one of those. Let me hear him.
Cynthia We: Oh, instead of us.
Cynthia We: He has these assignments do these two assignments do that are overdue. Yeah, we were backed off on homework, up until like he missed a little bit of school.
Cynthia We: And we would conference with the teachers and they told us the things that he was behind him. So Scott got really involved in homework again.
Cynthia We: And this is the last two assignments from the past that are due and they're both do for science and he made a promise to us that if he could go to young playwrights yesterday.
Cynthia We: From four o'clock until 630 that he would come home and he would do these these assignments. This is one assignment anyway.
Cynthia We: And then he came home and he said on the computer. And I asked him to do the homework and he didn't do the homework. Um, and then I came home and Scott had freaked out.
Cynthia We: So maybe that I'm wondering if the correct solution would just be to let the teacher and let his consequences at school happen.
Cynthia We: Rather than us exerting all this power and trying to control
Cynthia We: Trying to control his outcome. Maybe the consequence is that he gets a bad grade for the first time in his life, and he has to like
Deal with a lot out
Well,
Gwenevere Abriel: I think he was getting get bad grades really get kicked out of the school that you guys are spending all this money on. No. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes, you have choices which makes it hard, because you have to make a decision. But remember how we started. You haven't even tried
Cynthia We: Right to use progressive discipline. Right.
Cynthia We: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Before he gets to high school.
Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: When grades really go on the record.
Gwenevere Abriel: Wouldn't it be nice to actually have some power in your authority.
Cynthia We: Now, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, you're talking about the teacher. Yeah, natural consequence.
Gwenevere Abriel: Sure, but our job. I know is to be the external executive functioning, they don't have it right, we're taking it personally. Scott is taking it personally.
Cynthia We: It is personal. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's just would prefer to do what you prefer to do that is a normal development in brain of a 13 year old right
Gwenevere Abriel: You represent that part of the brain and as inconvenient as it is for you. That's the deal right
Gwenevere Abriel: Now you've already told me, hey, I'm not even that great at myself.
Gwenevere Abriel: So either throw your hands up and just use what you always did, which was anger or this is going to be inconvenient Sunday.
Cynthia We: I know
Gwenevere Abriel: I know. Well, I know you know intellectually
Cynthia We: I do know, but I must do it, I must do it, and I should have been practicing while Scott was here because I'm going to have to do it all when he's not here.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's going to be easier without him there. The truth of the matter is not one less dynamic to have to deal with.
Gwenevere Abriel: So if you want your more, as always, you're more than welcome to do family therapy and I'm happy to meet with you, you've had that open to you. Always. You already know how it goes.
Gwenevere Abriel: In general, care about everybody in there.
Gwenevere Abriel: But I don't want to be that teacher that were. You don't have to do this hard work you you can do this doesn't say to you. Yes, you can. It's literally just tolerating
Gwenevere Abriel: 30 seconds. I'm doing it. Okay, okay, has 60 seconds, always having a tantrum. Oh shit.
Gwenevere Abriel: Having a fit. Okay. We did say we knew this was going to happen. It's gonna get worse before it gets better. He's going to find out if I'm really going to follow through. Whoa, whoa, this is horrible or hate it. I'm going to go
Gwenevere Abriel: To go for a walk. I'm gonna I'm gonna text when. Oh, it's awful. Oh, I hate it. I hate it. What if he hates me. Oh, it's bringing back all these things, of how I let him down. Oh my gosh. All this stuff's coming up. Oh, it's I hate it. I hate it.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's what you're going to have to sit with that.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then he gets to find out.
Gwenevere Abriel: That time and then again he's going to do it and a third time he's going to do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: And at some point, he's gonna say
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh,
Cynthia We: Well as well. Do these damn sentences, because it's a lot easier than anything else.
Gwenevere Abriel: Giving me more.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's just getting harder.
Cynthia We: Now got homework on sentences.
Gwenevere Abriel: Homework on sentences, but he's going to have more times because he's gonna have no screen time pretty soon.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hey, plenty of time to do that. So, and then it's also you'll have time because you won't be doing this thing on Saturday, you'll have time to do that. Or you'll sit right next to me while I'm
Gwenevere Abriel: Working and you can do it right next to me mean there's lots of different ways to be that negative reinforcer that irritating thing that kind of like a good grief, but you have to hold on to you.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's let's let's see what you do with the punishment has to fit the crime.
Gwenevere Abriel: What comes up in your when I say you know what Seguin
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't want to be yelling I'm working on not yelling, I don't like how I feel. I don't like the message that it sends to you so
Gwenevere Abriel: Here's how it's going to go. I'm going to remind you once cuz I'm your executive functioning and I get that this huge developmental age.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then I'm not going to remind again. I'm just going to walk in with a piece of paper and it's going to have a sense that I want you to write 10 times and you have to get it done in the next 10 minutes or I will be adding another 10. Do you have any questions.
Gwenevere Abriel: No. What the fuck are you talking about, he says, fucking crazy lady, I don't know what he says.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you say, well, I know it's weird. I usually would be yelling right about now.
Gwenevere Abriel: But I'm seeing someone she's got some ideas. I'm going to see if this works where I can actually show you a consequence, and I'm not
Gwenevere Abriel: emoting and yelling, I want to see if we both kind of feel better and you have a choice. You know, I have a choice about my yelling, I just come at you with the yelling
Gwenevere Abriel: But you have a choice right now and I'm putting it up in front of you. This is what its gonna look like. In fact, here's the sentence say it's going to look like this. I do my homework within three hours of arriving home.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so that's a sense, you'll be writing 10 times you'll have 10 minutes. That's a lot of time to write that tiny little sentence, I love you, kid do the right thing. This is your choice. I'll come and check in your half hour and see how you doing your homework, you walk up
Gwenevere Abriel: Now,
Gwenevere Abriel: That's a law like I don't have to look up the law that I know killings NOT RIGHT. I KNOW. KNOW WHAT Federal offense and love misdemeanor. What, what, but I kind of know what they are, in general, and my community, my society. I can't steal
Gwenevere Abriel: I know if I speed. Eventually I do get caught. Sometimes I'm terrible speaker.
Gwenevere Abriel: But I would deserve it. I like you should have copy the last few years, which really bad. I really deserve this ticket.
Gwenevere Abriel: And but if it's like I'm giving I'm giving him in advance notice of what the consequence would be he has choice.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I'm going to have to follow through his sentences. I mean, try it yourself right one sentence. Let's see how painful this is let's let's do an experiment. I'm going to do it with you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, I
Complete homework.
Gwenevere Abriel: Within
Gwenevere Abriel: Don't cheat. Don't do W slash I just did. But don't you do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Within three write the word out hours of
Getting home.
Gwenevere Abriel: From school is actually a long sentence so 10 it's gonna be a lot. Okay, so that took however many sentences. Did you feel like that was like waterboarding or
Cynthia We: No, no, no, it's easy.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So 10
Cynthia We: One would be easy. I mean, like, like just mildly.
Cynthia We: Annoying not painful.
Cynthia We: 50 of them would be painful.
Gwenevere Abriel: But he'll have a choice, getting there, and it comes out in increments of 10 at a time.
Cynthia We: Oh, okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Meaning so taken. I understand right now. This is really different. And you're used to me not following through. I'm actually going to this time it's going to be uncomfortable for me because I want you to like me.
Gwenevere Abriel: But I'm going to do it anyway because
Gwenevere Abriel: I can't I just can't stand my yelling, I can't do it anymore. So here's what, here's how it's going to go, you're probably going to catch an attitude, you're probably going to say you're real idiot
Gwenevere Abriel: You're going to call me some names and then I'm going to add 10 more and then you'll have I'll give you another five minutes to complete them and then you're going to catch an attitude again and you won't do it. You're going to try and test me
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm going to add another 10 and when we get to 50 I'm going to stop with that. And then I'm gonna take your phone and I'm going to take it for the rest of the night.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I'll get it back when the 50 sentences are done.
Gwenevere Abriel: So it's gonna you're going to have some choices to, again, I did the sentence, it's actually really easy.
Gwenevere Abriel: You can do 10 of them right now with this first piece of limit testing. It's going to be super easy breezy. Or we could spend tonight, where you really get a feel for whether I have conviction.
Gwenevere Abriel: That can be what we do. Tonight I'm down with it I cleared my docket ain't got nothing going on. Just going to be you and me.
Gwenevere Abriel: Honestly, stick to it. That's my commitment to it is scary and hard for me, but I love you, you're worth it. I'm going to do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's a version where I don't have to be emotional.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm consistent with what I believe.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now,
Gwenevere Abriel: What is happening to you with this little role play
Cynthia We: This think you're so eloquent. I am not sure that I
I will be
Cynthia We: Able to to communicate what I'm doing.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so that's easy. We're going to write it down right now.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, yeah, that's it. That's what this is about. Okay, no problem. So you'll have notes so it'll be good. Get let's get a nice fresh piece of paper, you can already predict with some reasonable degree of what might go sideways.
Gwenevere Abriel: When he you are not upset with him.
Cynthia We: Okay, we'll come to him and tell him what's about to happen how things are going to change.
Cynthia We: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Make sure that's up like
Cynthia We: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: You know star like a sort of, you know, proactive not reactive. We say, so how do you want to address your son to again.
Cynthia We: Okay. To begin, I'm a I
Cynthia We: I can't stand my yelling
Cynthia We: Anymore. And so I've come up with a
Cynthia We: I'm working with somebody and we've come up with a different way to try and handle it.
Cynthia We: Handle
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't know. So you. So write down your truth, because that's what you started with.
Cynthia We: I can't stand my yelling and he can't stand it either, but more that I can't stand it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Just saying your truth.
Gwenevere Abriel: For now.
Cynthia We: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'd like you to
Gwenevere Abriel: Here's what I don't know what do you actually want him to do around homework. See if you can
Cynthia We: Follow the deadline.
Cynthia We: I want him to do it. I don't want him to wait till like right before bed. So I want it done in the afternoon or or. Yeah, like when he gets home. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're almost there actual time pick a time
Cynthia We: I like within three hours of getting home or
Cynthia We: Giving yeah
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, so you can mess around.
Cynthia We: I think to just, just to be safe, so that it because if he got home at six, it would be then nine so so two would be better.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So write that down.
Gwenevere Abriel: Which leaves him time to budget if it's a two hour assignment, and we'll talk about extensions on this agreement later but he has to budget his time while I need some downtime to play got a half hour.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because this is going to take about an hour and a half worth of work. So really only getting a half hour. Okay. Well, how about Mom, it's really kind of have two and a half hours I I am exhausted and you can use discretion in there. But that's not yelling and that is great.
Cynthia We: misquote so what
Gwenevere Abriel: About that worry about that yet.
Cynthia We: They will say is he will wait until
Cynthia We: Two hours and then start it.
That's not your problem that's his problem.
Oh, OK.
OK.
Cynthia We: So we're going to include the design. Yes. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're talking about budgeting and we'll talk about time management right in here will tell them
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, this I've kind of been watching you. You know, I live with ya know, and I can kind of predict how you think this is, you know, and you think is a reasonable excuse but when you said two hours, you think, and that's when you're going to start
Gwenevere Abriel: Huh, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: But what I would suggest is that you do a a preview right before you go play
Gwenevere Abriel: And you can do that with me or I could do that reminder if you wanted to. We're going to do a preview of what the work is predicted to take
Gwenevere Abriel: And you budget your time. Well, how, how, when when I need to start in order to get it done by seven o'clock.
So I
Gwenevere Abriel: Don't know if you want to participate with him on that and let's do that together. Okay, so it's
Gwenevere Abriel: You, that's a discussion. Hey, son. I've been watching you for a while you've been using this. I just got started as an excuse, but it's it's not an option anymore. So what I'm inviting is I'm going to teach you that. What we do is we flipped through it. We look at it.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, let's teach this kind of flexible, I can kind of do a half ass. Gentlemen, say, Okay, I feel like I could do this in an hour, so I don't really need to get started, till it's six
Gwenevere Abriel: So you say it out loud and be telling him what budgeting time what that might look like model that for him and you say so, just so you know.
Gwenevere Abriel: There's no excuse. Just because you decided to wait to the last minute, but that's cute.
Gwenevere Abriel: But that was then and we're not doing that anymore.
Gwenevere Abriel: Then what
Cynthia We: Then I would like to explain to him what will happen if he doesn't do it.
Okay.
Cynthia We: Um, so I am going to
Gwenevere Abriel: Remind you
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm going to
Cynthia We: Remind you once
Gwenevere Abriel: I walk in around
Gwenevere Abriel: Six o'clock, with a smile on my face and a, like a winky little. Mm hmm.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hey,
Cynthia We: Am I writing him to get started, or am I reminded him that is supposed to be.
Finished.
Gwenevere Abriel: What do you want to tell them what do you want to tell them
Cynthia We: They don't know
Gwenevere Abriel: We could remind them up for your agreement. So just let you know you're making some choices right now I see you're still
Cynthia We: OK.
Gwenevere Abriel: I see you're still on the
Cynthia We: Wall WANT TO REMIND yes
Gwenevere Abriel: It's
Cynthia We: Going to be on the FRICKIN COMPUTER AND HE'S NOT gonna get off the computer.
Gwenevere Abriel: And sweetie. You told me you thought it was going to take you two hours you're giving yourself an hour and a half. Dude, I love you, sweet pea. But I'm going to follow through this, this time when you walk out the door.
Gwenevere Abriel: That was your one reminder. A little man and aka
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay with love. Cindy okay voice.
Nice, be nice and playful.
You're playing a new game and it's not leveraging anger and scaring the shit out of someone as punishment. Right. It's a different game.
To
Gwenevere Abriel: You reminding of the new agreement.
Gwenevere Abriel: Just so we're clear, I'm going to fall through this time. Dude, I've already started writing the sentence, just in case, because I'm getting nervous, not getting to do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, do the right thing, man. And then you go to go do your own thing. But you popped in this is your one reminder. I said I would do it. I'm keeping my end of the deal. The next part is going to be. I'm going to follow through.
So,
Gwenevere Abriel: Then you say,
Gwenevere Abriel: So when we did a real time scenario but going back to the original discussion with him. It's like I'm going to give you one reminder
Gwenevere Abriel: Just because this is all new and I'm going to remind you of our agreement. I'm not going to say it in anger, you're going to probably be
Gwenevere Abriel: Only giving me credibility when the anger is there, but it's, you know, I'm just going to be giving you one reminder. And then here's how it's going to go. You're going to have to write 10 sentences within 10 minutes
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, period.
Gwenevere Abriel: Tikkun if you give me two and you can stay right there. Why don't you stay two examples of what
Today is attitude.
Gwenevere Abriel: So that you can say it. If you name call if you slam a door if you break material. I don't know what your stuff is. I don't know what he does, but
Cynthia We: slams doors. He just kicked the door open. The other one night when I was in the bathroom. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Write it down. Cindy. If you kick the door if you
Gwenevere Abriel: Damage property put at risk for damage and property. I'll be adding another 10 sentences which then you'll have an additional five minutes to complete.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I'll come and check. So we write that down. Okay.
Cynthia We: In five minutes.
What you can do
Gwenevere Abriel: You can think whatever you want me
Cynthia We: Yes, that's good, positive. Yeah, you can.
Gwenevere Abriel: You can think I'm a horrible, awful person and you plan.
Cynthia We: Whatever you want.
Gwenevere Abriel: You can punch the bed, something that doesn't hurt your body or any property. You can punch the bed to discharge it you can jump up and down. You can do some exercise you can listen to some music to get centered. You can take care of yourself.
Cynthia We: Okay.
Cynthia We: And when, if you give me
Gwenevere Abriel: If I come back.
Cynthia We: If I come back, and they're not finished. Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's right. If I come back in 15 minutes and these 20 right these 20 sentences aren't done. I'm going to be adding another 10
Gwenevere Abriel: And you'll have an additional five minutes to get it done. And if they're not done. We're going to end, we'll do this tea and all the way until we get to 50
Gwenevere Abriel: And if you've really made up your mind you're going to see if I'm going to follow through. I'm going to
Gwenevere Abriel: Take away and you know you got to talk to me about what you what you think is fitting the crime because I could roll out with my approach, but I want to hear from you what you think is appropriate.
Gwenevere Abriel: The phone doing what with
Cynthia We: A short amount of time taking it away.
Gwenevere Abriel: I will take your phone until what
Until
Gwenevere Abriel: The sentences are complete. Yeah. Nice and he may crank them out right away. And then guess what you do, hand it to them.
Cynthia We: And the phone back. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Got it right back, nicely done you opted for the quick deal. Okay, so then we're back to homework, see what happened.
Cynthia We: Yeah, so
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, cool. So this was all about homework. Do you feel like you. You have any questions about how to budget, the time do you need material. Is there something needed
Gwenevere Abriel: Is there anything to get in your way of getting it done you limited your amount of time you kind of use this piece of time, but you still have to get it done by that that's on you that you've done this dilly dally on if it's not by done by then, then what
Cynthia We: Cindy, um,
Cynthia We: Well, I can't imagine that it would be done by them know
Gwenevere Abriel: Hey, so be prepared.
Cynthia We: All the time.
Gwenevere Abriel: But that's right. This first time is going to stop, but just remember these grades don't count so much it's it's really more about you, establishing and I know you're like, oh, we shouldn't be power and control. Actually, you do need to have the authority, you're the parent
Cynthia We: Just
Gwenevere Abriel: won't work unless you have it. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So, okay, that you have it you supposed to
Cynthia We: Accept that through endure. Right. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Cynthia We: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So then you say, Okay, so you've used up a chunk of time. I'm glad you didn't keep this going. You still have until seven or whatever and
Gwenevere Abriel: If you don't, so you want to write this down. If this is the big one right. We don't just little nuance contingencies in the middle. But the big one is if you don't get your homework done within the two hours of getting home.
Gwenevere Abriel: You got to tell me what you're going to do, Cindy.
Greeting time
Gwenevere Abriel: Decision now.
Cynthia We: On specific
Gwenevere Abriel: I will take screen time for how long.
Cynthia We: Day.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so let's play it out all through the night.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is having a fit dentist. The next day, do you need him to have a phone to track him.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: To get up in the morning, he can get up in the morning without a phone.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, gets up gets his butt school comes home still doesn't have fun.
Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: You can't pull that
Cynthia We: When I take it away. I usually take it away for the whole next day and then you came back the next day.
Gwenevere Abriel: So does that one work.
Cynthia We: Uh, yeah, it feels like it works. It really upsets him.
Gwenevere Abriel: Does he do the homework.
Cynthia We: Um, I don't think that I've taken it away for homework because
Cynthia We: I haven't been
Cynthia We: I it hasn't been about homework that I've gotten really upset, it was more about him and Lola fighting and him picking on Lola and picking on Lola and not stopping
Cynthia We: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So this same exact thing. You can apply it across the board. You don't have to overthink it. Say, listen, I'm not going to get creative with this. I'm just going to use the same thing. I'm going to get a sentence for
Gwenevere Abriel: I will touch people with affection and in a playful way.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes 50 times 20 times whatever the thing is. But always put it in an affirmative what you want them to be doing, not what not to do.
Okay.
Cynthia We: Both of them. I've really been having some trouble with that lately.
Gwenevere Abriel: So we have, you will have you will lose screen time I check in on seven. You're gonna lose screen time for 24 hours so be seven to seven. All right. Good luck to you assign labia, can you leave.
Gwenevere Abriel: Come by at seven. It's not done. What do you have to do.
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you remove a cord. How do you remove screen time from this trial. How do you do it.
Cynthia We: Screen times my big one like all things so i think i I've taken away the computer then I've taken away PlayStation.
Gwenevere Abriel: You pick you pick it up.
Cynthia We: No, I take the court.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, you take the court. She walked over you take the board, you don't lecture.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now,
Gwenevere Abriel: Now he slams the door. What do you do
Cynthia We: I don't know freak out run freak out.
Gwenevere Abriel: We need to have
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes, several more escalating steps. Okay you you catch an attitude, while I'm following exactly what I said it was going to do.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're going to extend this no screen time
Cynthia We: Oh, yes. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Another day
Gwenevere Abriel: This has to be remembered by you. Yes, we could do something else. But how the heck are we gonna remember it. If it gets too complicated. It's gonna be too hard to remember now keep it simple.
Cynthia We: So phone rest of day then phone for
Cynthia We: 24 hours.
Cynthia We: Then
Cynthia We: All electronics right all electronics for tomorrow or for today and smile today.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'll just keep adding the days because
Gwenevere Abriel: It gets too hard. After that, but
Gwenevere Abriel: It can continue I'm
Gwenevere Abriel: If you're so we do need something after that next.
His door.
Gwenevere Abriel: You want to remove it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Uh huh. I've done
Before
Cynthia We: And then I couldn't get it back up.
Cynthia We: By some new tool new things to like
Cynthia We: I took the door knob off and then we had to buy a new door.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh my gosh, they come on just the pan out, it comes right off.
Gwenevere Abriel: In here in this thing. These things visa.
Cynthia We: Oh,
Gwenevere Abriel: Just pull these up and the door comes right off.
Cynthia We: You don't have to take the door knob off.
Gwenevere Abriel: On it.
Cynthia We: locked me out.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now you just, it's so easy. You just, you just take
Gwenevere Abriel: A little screwdriver and a hammer, you go bam, bam, bam. This comes from straight up.
Cynthia We: Oh, okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm straight up straight up with the pins back and just you don't lose them hang the door in your room and it's done.
Cynthia We: So, um, I think what had happened was he locked himself in his bedroom and so I removed the door knob. So I could get in
Cynthia We: So I guess that was the only way
Cynthia We: So I will
Gwenevere Abriel: Go right on your list. I don't want to be locked out.
Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, now, Cindy. We all do, no matter how small we are, we do need privacy. So you can still say listen, you're going to be working something out emotionally as well. I the as we go through this transition
Gwenevere Abriel: You're more than welcome. I won't be going in out of your room, but I don't want it locked because aren't going to need to be updating you on the next thing I need to check on the homework I need to see if you're damaging property.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I will respect your privacy by not walking in and out.
Gwenevere Abriel: You see what I'm getting at.
Cynthia We: Yeah, I do.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay cuz he's a human. He's a little guy.
Cynthia We: I think Scott doesn't respect his privacy. He just walks and he doesn't knock and um but maybe we can get together on that. Yeah, the same page. Maybe I won't tell Scott what to do. He can
Gwenevere Abriel: Walk after if it gets really bad. What comes after the door.
I'm
dance classes.
Cynthia We: Celebrate
Gwenevere Abriel: You're gonna you're going to miss a dance class you're going to miss the next fun
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm not kidding you have got to respect me decide right now if you want to keep acting like you were going to run this house or you're gonna let me and trust me that I can do it, Cindy.
Gwenevere Abriel: I really hope that you're ready because I don't want you to let him down.
Gwenevere Abriel: And letting him down.
Cynthia We: So hard but I
Cynthia We: But
Gwenevere Abriel: That's what love looks like. Yeah, that's what love looks like because right now. You're not bothered by the fact that you're yelling at him. That doesn't seem to bother you, but a consequence is
Gwenevere Abriel: That's our
Cynthia We: Quizzes were so outrageous and they didn't teach me anything like they were months at a time so
Gwenevere Abriel: But you better be writing stuff down that work.
Cynthia We: If
Gwenevere Abriel: That works for you. That doesn't feel really horrible. And remember, when we tell someone, you have a choice right now.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's going to look like this. We're not slamming them with the unknown, sweetheart. YOU DECIDED. NO, I get that you're testing limits, but I'm going to follow through. It's just going to suck for you.
Gwenevere Abriel: But I gotta follow through, because otherwise, it means I'm loving it down and I'll end up yelling
Gwenevere Abriel: Now, will be our pattern.
Gwenevere Abriel: And the message that it sends you so not Park. What do you say to him a message does that send him.
Cynthia We: That love is is anger and love is is a screaming and yelling
Cynthia We: And I don't think it's a good message.
Gwenevere Abriel: we manipulate each other with our emotions.
Cynthia We: I just read something about that, about how we we manipulate our spouses everybody's manipulating everybody with with their emotions.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, not the ones that say, I feel
Gwenevere Abriel: Not the ones that own it or not busy blaming saying words like this. You make me feel like crap.
Gwenevere Abriel: No, you know, I feel insecure. I feel scared. I feel small.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's different.
Gwenevere Abriel: And we have empathy for each other. So yeah, we're going to care. So are we manipulating each other. We caring for each other. Well, my, I don't know, tomato, tomato, I guess you got to be in it to see, but for me.
Gwenevere Abriel: If we own the way we talk, the fact that this is my emotion. This is what I care about. This is what motivates me to want to talk about this subject, Scott Teagan I
Gwenevere Abriel: Motivated because I'm feeling strongly about it. I'm really scared the same pattern is going to happen. I want to talk about how important it is to me.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's not good. Yeah, that's good.
Healthy
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, let's give me your worst. I'm going to be taken. We don't have a lot of time here it goes by fast when I do this kind of stuff. But what what do you want me to say or do, where you get to you can have that right in front of you.
Cynthia We: Know, well he's gonna call me a bitch.
Cynthia We: I was like,
Gwenevere Abriel: What point
Cynthia We: At the
Cynthia We: After I've started taking his electronics way. Oh, well I guess right after I take celebration way.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well that's way now.
Cynthia We: I know that. Yeah, he won't call he not so if I'm not yelling, I don't believe that he'll yo
Gwenevere Abriel: Really
Okay, yeah.
Cynthia We: I don't think I actually, I have no idea. I have no idea what he'll do he's
Gwenevere Abriel: He's so you know you're going to bring the paper and pencil. Your and how the sentence run on there, you'll say one through 10 have a sentence to put you put
Gwenevere Abriel: Times 10 and you put do by you have to write it out. Okay, I just put in from this is what we talked about highly, highly highly recommend you get it done because I'm gonna be checking in 10 minutes. It's not done, maybe adding another 10 yo don't do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: But if you have to. I get it. Because you're going to test me so I'll be back in 10 now if you go
Gwenevere Abriel: Give me your worst what's going to happen at that point.
Cynthia We: He's not going to do them.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay so so walk in the room, and I'm sitting here like this, watching TV.
Cynthia We: As a. Oh, okay. It seems that you have not done any of the sentences that I
Cynthia We: Know, I'm going to add
Cynthia We: Another 10
Cynthia We: And on the those done. And I'll give you an extra five
Cynthia We: Women. So am I giving them 15 minutes them to do all 20 yes
Cynthia We: So that I will write down 10 more by 15 minutes later. Yeah. Me, I'm pretending it six
Whatever.
Gwenevere Abriel: Whatever.
Gwenevere Abriel: Whatever you want.
Cynthia We: Okay, and then he's not going to do those so
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, right.
Cynthia We: Oh my
Cynthia We: Goodness, I see that you haven't done any of these senses yet so
Cynthia We: I'm very sorry, but I have to follow through, because I promised you that I would do this and and I don't want to yell, but I do want you to learn so
Cynthia We: I'm, I'm going to retire more and you'll have another extra five minutes to do those so
Gwenevere Abriel: You write this stuff and pencil and you just change where it was times 10 now it's times 20. Now it's time 30 now it's times 40 you write it in pencil and pen.
Cynthia We: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: You can erase it.
And
Gwenevere Abriel: Get that all figured out before you walk in the room.
You've already figured out
Cynthia We: There, you know what, I'm giving him an extra I'm giving him 20 minutes to do all that.
Gwenevere Abriel: I can't do that in 20 minutes. You're out of your mind.
Cynthia We: You can. You're smart and you're fast in you're resourceful.
Gwenevere Abriel: No, I'm not gonna have any time to do anything. I'm not going to be able to get my homework done. You're making it impossible for me to do my work.
Cynthia We: I would suggest that you get going, because this is less than 50 so and that's what's coming. If you continue to do
And then you walk, walk out of the room.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. How are you feeling right now.
Cynthia We: I'm okay yeah yeah a little anxious, but okay. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: And it's okay to be anxious, you're doing something new.
Gwenevere Abriel: And something important.
Cynthia We: Yes, very important. It will so
Gwenevere Abriel: Those feelings are going to be there.
Gwenevere Abriel: Everybody feels those right we
Gwenevere Abriel: Right. Yes. Pulling kids is really our job. That's why they talk about why it's so hard. It's, it's hard.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, how far is this going to get. Do you think
Cynthia We: I should go go all the way to the end.
Gwenevere Abriel: So have the screwdriver handy already have it in the kitchen already have the little hammer. You can experiment with how easy it is to come off.
Gwenevere Abriel: I mean, if you really want to get into the game. You can take it off now. And he can see you doing and be like, What are you doing like practicing practicing to see if I can get this thing off easily just in case, what mom, I will, I will talk in 20 minutes settle in have a snack.
Cynthia We: Good.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's a new game. Why is it have to be cruel.
Cynthia We: Doesn't have to be crowded. It has to be cruel. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: They know that this foreign and probably you're going to yell a little. It doesn't mean you stop. Okay, back on track. Gosh, I'm yelling
Cynthia We: Oh, you're so sorry I did not
Cynthia We: Get better at this.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, that's it. Oh, you're so weird. Okay. Yeah. Well, I'm doing something. No.
No yelling. I'm just gonna tell you
Gwenevere Abriel: Don't damage property. I'm going to add more. Remember what I said so highly recommend you get it done and off you go catch yourself, don't give up just because you you do what you always did. That's more familiar to you, then, then this script.
Cynthia We: Perfect. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: And this doesn't have it right now. I mean, if you want to talk to Scott about it, that's fine, but it could get he might Pooh, pooh it you might feel insulted like it's not good enough.
Cynthia We: You did Pooh, pooh it. I already talked to him about it. He laughed at me, he said he's totally not going to do it. He's gonna
Cynthia We: Not gonna do it, he's just not going to do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: So be be prepared. Do not I cannot emphasize this enough, don't stop, don't say you're going to remove an activity.
Gwenevere Abriel: And not and not do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: But don't say it.
Gwenevere Abriel: don't threaten hoping that the thread itself is enough pleased
Cynthia We: Hey, I won't say anything. I'm not prepared to do
Gwenevere Abriel: Thank you. Now between you and I. Sometimes they turn into a little angels, and you're like,
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, you can have it back. Little page. This worked a lot faster than I thought, Oh, I feel so much better. All right, we're good. But now, you know, so it's not like
Gwenevere Abriel: They're you know you're gonna you're gonna have to weigh out how important it is to follow all the way through. It could be this kid. What if he's just starts
Gwenevere Abriel: Crying and coming to insane. I'm. What if he comes to you with this massive disclosure like it matters. It plays into it. Okay, we only put out one part right you're still mom paying attention to your son. Okay. Okay.
You love this boy. Okay. Yeah. So show him.
Gwenevere Abriel: So smart he can do this.
Gwenevere Abriel: He literally all you have to do is write the stupid sentences and I'm going to tell you they do.
Gwenevere Abriel: They do, they do and they don't even they just do it and then moved on to something else. They just and then it's literally they only do the 10 it never goes any further really yeah but you got it.
Cynthia We: Yeah, but the first
Gwenevere Abriel: She not the first time it's going to suck egg.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's gonna suck and will come in and
Cynthia We: They know that you'll follow through, they respect.
Gwenevere Abriel: Me and I earned it. And these parents earned it. But it was hard.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I know you don't know yet. And so you're relying on this like mystery of will this work we, you know, you're not going to know until you get there and keep talking to me say okay this is I wasn't expecting this little thing.
Gwenevere Abriel: I want to kill myself.
Gwenevere Abriel: How about that one. You know, we don't know what we're about to run into. So, full stop. That's something else.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's pulled the therapist in there that can't happen. Kitty people can't use that as a leverage, but that is emotional manipulation at its worst
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's see how it goes. Okay, and you're welcome to reach out to me with this is where we are. And I'm forgetting or whatever you welcome to and we'll see if I'm available, I can kind of be helpful through this. I know the first time it's not going to be easy, but we've been here before.
Cynthia We: And let's see what happens. Practice enough with you that I think I can do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, I think I got it.
Cynthia We: Has some practice now because I'm sure that he he will not do his assignment in school today and he will have to do it when you get home today and so
Cynthia We: Instead of running off to the gym. I will do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm excited for you. Okay.
Cynthia We: Yes, me too.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, I better run a group
Cynthia We: Okay, goodbye. Thank you.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I'll see you next Thursday or yeah
Cynthia We: Okay, yeah, I think I actually don't go, Monday, Tuesday, I think.
Cynthia We: We a month.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'll see you on Monday.
Yes, maybe
Cynthia We: I it's either this Monday or the next Monday. But I think it's this Monday, I have to find my planner to tell you
Cynthia We: Bye bye. Thank you.